---
layout: post
title: "1Password on Mac OSX"
excerpt: "I need this even though it's querky"
tags: [Mac, Security]
image:
# feature: pic white robots woman 1900x500.jpg
  feature: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/300046/14622167/45abd918-0585-11e6-8537-a58e0b55e3ec.jpg
  credit: Cyberconstruct.be
  creditlink: http://cyberconstruct.be/2015/02/digital-job-crafting/
comments: true
---
<i>{{ page.excerpt }}</i>
<hr />

{% include _toc.html %}

Below is the script for a video course I'm writing.


## Introduction

In this course you will learn how to protect your bank account and other 
websites from being hacked (as easily).

This is probably the most important tutorial I've created
because it's one thing we can do to keep our accounts safe from predators.

It's not safe to use a single password on several websites
because hackers use programs to try passwords.

It's also not safe anymore to use a pattern to vary passwords slightly on each site
because passwords from many breached websites are open,
so hackers can now recognize patterns from several sites.

We should also use different user names for each site.

We can keep a list of passwords in a file.

But what if our laptop gets lost or stolen?

So what we need is a way to generate a different strong password for each website we use.

That's what 1Password does.



If you forget your private information,
several websites, such as Salesforce and job application site Valeo, 
don't provide much support.



The software gives us access to a password list protected by a master password.


There are several products available to hold passwords.

1Password is unique in that it allows its password file to not leave the computer,
and be stored in some cloud server for hackers to steal.

The software is called one password because you use one password to access 
all the passwords it saves.

This enables you to open the same website on any browser.

Moreover, this would enable someone to have access to your accounts in case you are disabled or die.

If you 



NOTE: What the software doesn't do is automatically change the password on every website.


## Install

Software is installed on your operating system.

Software also needs to be installed on each internet browser you have installed.



## Install 1Password

### Other browsers

   Since work is needed on each specific browser,
   the last I checked the new Brave browser has not been.

## Transfer to a Windows machine

## Transfer to an iPhone

## Transfer to an Android

## Clear out Saved Passwords saved on browsers

Now that you have 1Password working, clear out auto complete on browsers:

## Erase passwords kept by Browsers

Internet browsers save passwords and other data typed to fill out forms.

And when you enter a username and password that the browser has not already stored for a website, it will ask if you want it to remember the password. Deny that.

But this convenience can be dangerous because any site you visit can potentially get at that autofill data.

### Clear Safari browser

(Mac OS X 10.6 – 10.12.x)

1. Open Safari.
2. Press command command to open the Preferences dialog.
3. Switch to the Autofill tab.
4. Uncheck all "AutoFill web forms".
5. Enter your password.
6. Click the Edit button for "User names and passwords".
7. Click Remove for the entry that corresponds with the site you want to remove.

### Clear Firefox  browser

(Mac OS X 10.6 – 10.12x and Win 7 and 8 and 10)

1. Click on the "hamburger" menu on the top-right corner.
2. Click "Privacy & Security" on the left menu.
3. Uncheck "Remember logins and passwords for websites".
4. Click "Saved Logins" button.
6. Remove all.

7. Click "Saved Addresses"
8. Click on each item to expose the password. Verify that you have that password in your password vault. Then click Remove for that item.
9. Uncheck "Autofill addresses"

10. Click the X to dismiss the Settings tab.

### Clear Google Chrome  browser

(Mac OS X 10.6 – 10.12x and Win 7 and 8 and 10)

1. Click on the Menu Icon (three vertical dots) in the upper right corner.
2. Click on Settings, then Settings in the pop-up menu for a new "chrome://settings" tab.
3. Scroll down to click "Advanced" to expose "Privacy and security" settings.
4. Scroll down to the "Passwords and forms" section.
5. Click "Autofill settings".
6. Click the blue toggle so it says "Off" at the left edge on the same line.
7. Click the left arrow to return to the previous page.

8. Click the "Manage Passwords" section.
9. Click the blue toggle so it says "Off" at the left edge on the same line.
10. For both blue toggles.
11. For each entry in Saved Passwords, click the menu icon for each line. Verify that you have that password in your password vault. Select Remove.
12. At the top left of the screen, click the arrow to return to the previous menu.

### Clear Brave browser

1. Click on the Menu Icon (three vertical dashes) in the upper right corner on the tabs line.
2. Click on "Security" in the left menu.
3. Click "Manage Autofill Data" for a new tab.
4. Remove any entry.
5. Click on the Autofill tab and click x to close it.
6. Click to turn off the orange toggle under the "Autofill Settings".
7. Click on the Perferences tab and click x to close it.

## Resources

https://www.troyhunt.com/only-secure-password-is-one-you-cant/



## More on OSX

This is one of a series on Mac OSX:

{% include mac_links.html %}
