---
layout: post
title: "Virtual Reality"
excerpt: "Make decisions in 4D"
modified:
tags: []
image:
#  feature: pic black entering stadium 1900X500.jpg
   feature: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/300046/14621833/d9af8f54-0582-11e6-9c88-7e8d1cead630.jpg 
   credit: 
   creditlink: 
comments: true
---
<i>{{ page.excerpt }}</i>
<hr />

{% include _toc.html %}

Many new technologies are "flies looking for a winshield".

I think that a virtual reality system would be very useful to help people
visualize the <strong>impact of decisions</strong> in real time,
in <strong>four dimensions</strong> - 
over time, up/down, side-to-side, forward-backward.
Each direction can be assigned a meaning for navigation.

A business or system has dozens of metrics.

Ideally, this would have computer generated voice to 
describe the meaning and to give directions about next steps,
to confirm before taking action.

<strong>Voice recognition</strong> would help
in recognizing commands with minimal confusion.

   * https://davidwalsh.name/speech-recognition

Recognition of hand movements (as by an XBox or PS3)
enables the approximation of a real human-like conversation.


## Gestures #

Two-dimensional line graphs typically show time left-to-right.
But in a VR:

   * Walk or lean forward (or move the joystick) to move into the future.
   * Walk or lean backward to move to the past.
   <br /><br />

Yes, some calibration is necessary.


## Total attention #

If we can get someone to strap a VR visor on their head,
we have their undivided attention.
She is not looking at emails while sitting in a conference room.
He is not doodling on his tablet.

## Head gestures #

Movements of the head detected by the accelerometer 
changes the view presentated.





## More on DevOps #

This is one of a series on DevOps:

{% include devops_links.html %}
