---
layout: post
title: "MongoDB setup"
excerpt: "Database"
tags: [Database, osx, install]
image:
# feature: pic white robots woman 1900x500.jpg
  feature: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/300046/14622167/45abd918-0585-11e6-8537-a58e0b55e3ec.jpg
  credit: Cyberconstruct.be
  creditlink: http://cyberconstruct.be/2015/02/digital-job-crafting/
comments: true
---
<i>{{ page.excerpt }}</i>
<hr />

{% include _toc.html %}

This is a tutorial on how to install MongoDB on a Mac.

BTW, AWS DynamoDB provides a service for this.

## MongoDB in Docker container

1. Start the Docker daemon

   <tt><strong>
   sudo docker run -d -p 27017:27017 -v ~/data:/data/db mongo
    </strong></tt>

0. Based on https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo/
   <a target="_blank" href="http://www.ifdattic.com/how-to-mongodb-nodejs-docker/">*</a>

   <tt><strong>docker pull mongo:latest
   </strong></tt>


## Install MongoDB using Homebrew #

0. <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/">
   Install Mongodb, on a Mac</a> (not the latest dev release):

   <tt><strong>
   brew update<br />
   brew install mongodb
   </strong></tt>

   The response (takes a long time):

   <pre>
==> Downloading https://homebrew.bintray.com/bottles/mongodb-3.2.8.el_capitan.bo
==> Pouring mongodb-3.2.8.el_capitan.bottle.tar.gz
==> Caveats
To have launchd start mongodb now and restart at login:
  brew services start mongodb
Or, if you don't want/need a background service you can just run:
  mongod --config /usr/local/etc/mongod.conf
==> Summary
🍺  /usr/local/Cellar/mongodb/3.2.8: 17 files, 264.1M
   </pre>



   ### Start MongoDB service #

   <tt><strong>
brew services start mongodb
   </strong></tt>

   The response:

   <pre>
==> Tapping homebrew/services
Cloning into '/usr/local/Homebrew/Library/Taps/homebrew/homebrew-services'...
remote: Counting objects: 12, done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
remote: Total 12 (delta 0), reused 7 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
Unpacking objects: 100% (12/12), done.
Tapped 0 formulae (40 files, 54KB)
==> Successfully started `mongodb` (label: homebrew.mxcl.mongodb)
   </pre>


   ### Verify MongoDB service #

   <tt><strong>
ps -al
   </strong></tt>


   ### Stop MongoDB service #

   <tt><strong>
brew services stop mongodb
   </strong></tt>


   ### Re-Start MongoDB service #

   <tt><strong>
brew services restart mongodb
   </strong></tt>

   ### Troubleshooting


By default docker-machine uses the virtualbox driver to create a local VM. However, Mongo uses mmap to turbo-charge access to files on disk. So tell docker to create a data volume in the container rather than in the host:

docker run --name my-local-mongo -v mongo-data:/data/db -p 27017:27017 -d mongo
view raw


0. Get the IP of the VM:

   docker-machine ls


## Dependencies in Docker 

When an application starts, it's a problem if its dependencies are not available.

   * Load configuration settings from a JSON encoded config file
   * Access a working data directory
   * Establish a connection to an external mysql database
   <br /><br />

Traditionally, the approach is to ensure the database is started before starting the applications that depend on it by using Puppet, Chef, Ansible, or other configuration management tool.

<a target="_blank" href="https://medium.com/@kelseyhightower/12-fractured-apps-1080c73d481c">
"This is nothing more then a band-aid covering up the larger problem."</a>
Kelsey Hightower says and recommends having app code handle the dependency problem.
His sample in Go:

   <a target="_blank" src="
   https://github.com/kelseyhightower/12-fractured-apps/blob/master/v3/main.go">
   https://github.com/kelseyhightower/12-fractured-apps/blob/master/v3/main.go</a>

* load configuration files if it exists, but fall back to sane defaults.

* Read environment variables to override configuration settings.

* Manage working directories inside the application. If they are missing create them.

* <strong>Retry</strong> the database connection, using some sort of backoff, and log errors along the way so alerts can be sent out.

   This "defensive programming" code is the "optimistic" approach.
   It's usually a transient problem.
   At some point the database will come online.

TODO: Put startup-related code in a library for re-use.
