---
layout: post
title: "Find (files and text in files)"
excerpt: "Find, grep, sed stuff on your hard drives using regular expressions"
tags: [OSX, Utilities]
image:
# feature: pic white robots woman 1900x500.jpg
  feature: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/300046/14622167/45abd918-0585-11e6-8537-a58e0b55e3ec.jpg
  credit: Cyberconstruct.be
  creditlink: http://cyberconstruct.be/2015/02/digital-job-crafting/
comments: true
---
<i>{{ page.excerpt }}</i>
<hr />

{% include _toc.html %}

Here are my notes on finding (and replacing) stuff within a Mac,
including searching inside files and file metadata.

## Spotlight = mdfind

MacOS comes with a GUI called <strong>Spotlight</strong>. It maintains, automatically running in the background, a database that indexes every file and its metadata (such as date modified, etc.). 

Spotlight's database and functionality is available in the command <strong>mdfind</strong>. Anything Spotlight can find, mdfind can find it too. The command to search for the word "essay" only within the Documents folder:

   <pre><strong>mdfind -onlyin ~/Documents essay
   </strong></pre>

If you don's use Spotlight or mdfind, turn off its indexing overhead entirely:

   <pre><strong>mdutil -i off</strong></pre>

If Spotlight's indexing isn't working the way it should, erase the index and rebuild it from scratch:

   <pre><strong>mdutil -E</strong></pre>


## Terminal commands:

1. cd to the folder you want searched. For example:

   <tt><strong>cd ~/gits/wilsonmar/wilsonmar.github.io/_posts
   </strong></tt>

   PROTIP: Drill down into the lowest folder you can.
   If you are too high in the folder hierarchy, you'll encounter messages like these about 
   protected folders and files not processed:

   <pre>
find: ./.DocumentRevisions-V100: Permission denied
find: ./.fseventsd: Permission denied
find: ./.MobileBackups: Permission denied
find: ./.Spotlight-V100: Permission denied
find: ./.Trashes: Permission denied
find: ./dev/fd/3: Not a directory
find: ./dev/fd/4: Not a directory
find: fts_read: Permission denied
   </pre>

   <a name="Grep"></a>

   ### Grep Utilities

0. See the version of the Grep utility installed:

   <pre><strong>grep --version</strong></pre>

   example response:

   <tt>grep (BSD grep) 2.5.1-FreeBSD</tt>

   PROTIP: The Mac is a combination of BSD and Linux goodness.

0. Display just the filenames containing the word "foo":

   <pre><strong>
   grep -r -l "foo" .
   </strong></pre>
   
   From https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-recursively-search-all-files-for-words/


   ### Use find command to show text within files

0. For example, find text ">>>>>> HEAD" <strong>within</strong> files by diving recursively into the current folder and down (represented by a period) :

   <pre><strong>grep -ri ">>>>>> HEAD" .
   </strong></pre>
   
   TIP: Remove the i to not ignore case distinctions.


0. To find text ">>>>>> HEAD" <strong>within</strong> 
   files of ".md" type at the current folder path:

   <pre><strong>
   find . –name "*.md" –print | xargs grep ">>>>>> HEAD"
   </strong></pre>


0. Use `-print0` option to find filenames that contain spaces or other metacharacters:

   <pre><strong>
   find /path/to/dir -type f -print0 | xargs -0 grep -l "foo"
   </strong></pre>


   ### Find file names

   See <a target="_blank" href="http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2009/03/15-practical-linux-find-command-examples/">
   Mommy, I found it! — 15 Practical Linux Find Command Examples</a>

0. Find files using file-name ( case in-sensitve find)

   <pre><strong>
   find -iname "MyCProgram.c"
   </strong></pre>

0. Execute commands on files found by the find command:

   <pre><strong>
   find -iname "MyCProgram.c" -exec md5sum {} \;
   </strong></pre>

0. Find all empty files in home directory:

   <pre><strong>
   find ~ -empty
   </strong></pre>

   WARNING: There is a lot of these.


0. Find the word "server" with case -insensitive in a file:

   <pre><strong>grep -i Server /etc/ntp.conf
   </strong></pre>

   The "-i" for insensitive capitalization.

   The response contains the word "server" searched:

   <pre>
server time.apple.com.
   </pre>

0. Find lines that don't (-v to reverse search) 
begin with # (specified by a ^)
   or blank lines (specified by a ^) to the end of line $:

   <pre><strong>grep -ve'^#' -ve'^$'/etc/ntp.conf
   </strong></pre>

   The response:

   <pre>
server time.apple.com.
   </pre>

## Last 10 files modified anywhere

### Time utility

0. Find the last word "server" with case -insensitive in a file:

   <pre><strong>
   time find . -xdev -type f -print0 | xargs -0 stat -f "%m%t%Sm %N" | sort -rn | head -n 10 | cut -f2-
   </strong></pre>

   The time utility captures how long the command takes to run.
   It's needed because the "find ." command looks at every file in the whole operating system.

   <pre>
real  1m1.537s
user  0m32.894s
sys   0m29.795s
   </pre>

   ### Stat utility

1. <a target="_blank" href="https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/191422/how-can-i-quickly-find-the-20-most-recently-modified-files-on-mac-os-x-instead">
   NOTE</a>: Use the Linux stat command:

   <pre><strong>
   stat -f "%m%t%Sm %N" /tmp/* | sort -rn | head -10 | cut -f2-
   </strong></pre>

   which returns, for example:

   <pre>
   Mar 25 16:38:45 2018 /tmp/wbxgpc.wbt
   </pre>

2. This is such a useful command that you can make an alias of it in ~/.bash_profile:

   <pre>
   alias last10="stat -f "%m%t%Sm %N" /tmp/* | sort -rn | head -10 | cut -f2-"
   </pre>


   <a name="Regex"></a>

## Regular Expressions

   We'll use the spelling dictionary of English words that comes with Linux.

   * <a target="_blank" href="https://dzone.com/articles/abc-of-regex">ABCs of Regex</a>

0. Search for words ending with "fine":

   <pre><strong>grep 'fine$' /usr/share/dict/words
   </strong></pre>

   $ (Shift+4) specifies search from the end of string.

   Responses include "refine".

0. Search for words beginng with "fine":

   <pre><strong>grep '^fine' /usr/share/dict/words
   </strong></pre>

   ^ (Shift+6) specifies search from the beginning of string.

   Responses include "refine".

0. Search for "fine" anywhere within the line:

   <pre><strong>grep 'fine' /usr/share/dict/words
   </strong></pre>

0. Search for lines containing "fine" anywhere within words:

   <pre><strong>grep 'fine' /usr/share/dict/words
   </strong></pre>

   ### Whitespace 

0. Search for a **s**pace before "system" in lines, such as either "system" or "file system":

   <pre><strong>grep '\ssystem' /etc/ntp.conf
   </strong></pre>

0. Search for any word **b**oundary after "server" in lines, such as 
   "servers" or "serverless":

   <pre><strong>grep 'server\b' /etc/ntp.conf
   </strong></pre>

   PROTIP: The response "server time.apple.com" is the server used for Network Time Protocol
   used to update your machine's clock.

   ### Reverse search

0. Return lines that do not start with # for comment:

   <pre><strong>grep -v '^\s*#' /etc/hosts
   </strong></pre>


0. Search for specific characters C or c:

   <pre><strong>grep '[Cc]'
   </strong></pre>

   ### Locate command database

   sudo locate whatever

   <pre>
WARNING: The locate database (/var/db/locate.database) does not exist.
To create the database, run the following command:
&nbsp;
  sudo launchctl load -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.locate.plist
&nbsp;
Please be aware that the database can take some time to generate; once
the database has been created, this message will no longer appear.
   </pre>

   
   ### Quantifiers

0. Search for "color" or "colour" in any line, using a combination, including
   a ? to specify the previous character u as an optional character:

   <pre><strong>grep '\b[Cc]olou?r\b' /usr/share/dict/words
   </strong></pre>

   `u+` matches one or more occurrences.

   `u*` matches zero or more times.

   `u{4}` matches exactly four occurrences.

   ## Enhanced grep:

0. Return words with five consequtive vowel characters:

   <pre><strong>grep -E '[aeiou]{5}' /usr/share/dict/words
   </strong></pre>

   BTW, "euouae" (<a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i5IVh7245hg">pronounced your-you-ee"</a>) consists only of vowels.


   ### Regex ranges

0. Search for characters, upper and lower case ranges from A to Z, 
   plus underscores:

   <pre><strong>grep '[A-Za-z_]' ???
   </strong></pre>

0. Search for just numbers range 1 through 9:

   <pre><strong>grep '[0-9]' ???
   </strong></pre>




<a name="Sed"></a>

## Sed

The Linux sed utility replaces contents within a file.

To delete empty lines and comment lines:

   <pre><strong>
   sed -i.bak '/^s*#/d;/^$/d' somefile
   </strong></pre>

   The -i generates a backup (file .bak in this case).

   The semicolon separates multiple specifications.




## Windows

https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/search-file-contents-windows/

## Hidden files

If you are searching for hidden files:

   <a target="_blank" href="http://ianlunn.co.uk/articles/quickly-showhide-hidden-files-mac-os-x-mavericks/">
   How to Search the Content of Your Files on Windows</a>


## Using Utility programs

KDiff3

P4Merge


## Using IDE

Within Eclipse, press ctrl+F for the Find dialog.

Press ctrl+H for Find & replace.

Search are multi-line by default in Eclipse when you are using regex:

   <pre>(\@Length\(max = L_255)\)([\r\n\s]+private)</pre>


