---
layout: post
title: "Chatbots"
excerpt: "Computers interacting with people by voices, without keyboards"
tags: [microsoft, Azure, machine learning, AI, cloud, certification]
image:
# feature: pic green matrix hallway 1900x500.jpg
  feature: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/300046/14623876/07afd066-0593-11e6-933a-2e596511ac67.jpg
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
comments: true
---
<i>{{ page.excerpt }}</i>
<hr />

{% include _toc.html %}

This is a hands-on introduction to chatbots by various vendors.

## Use case examples

Academics have identified two types of dialog systems:

   1) Goal-oriented, and<br />
   2) General conversation (using "generative" and "selective" models)

XiaoIce, a chatbot Microsoft launched in China, "has more than 200 million users, has engaged in 30 billion conversations, and has an average conversation length of 23 turns, which averages out to about half an hour, achieving human parity at translation from Chinese to English.
 Japan-based Rinna and the US-based Zo)

The Dominos Pizza chatbot app takes users through ordering, without any human interaction.

## Description

Chat bots provide a <strong>conversational</strong> user interface 
where short messages are exchanged via text or voice interactions.

Some refer to Chatbots as <strong>"chatterbots"</strong> because they simulate the conversation or "chatter" of a human being. A user can ask a chatbot a question or make a command, and the chatbot responds or performs the requested action.

The computer's fluency is made possible by recent advances in AI.
Machine Learning algorithms are used to "learn" based on many previous real conversations to train it.
Because Machine Learning models take into account all past history, 
chatbots can become better than people.

Companies working on chatbots:

   * <a href="#MicrosoftAzure">Microsoft Bot Framework to Bot Services</a>
   * <a href="#AmazonLex">Amazon Lex</a>
   * Google
   * botworx.ai
   * chatfuel

<a name="MicrosoftAzure"></a>

## Microsoft Bot Framework

<a target="_blank" href="https://dev.botframework.com/">
https://dev.botframework.com</a>
details Microsoft's <strong>Bot Framework</strong>: a complete bot building environment (SDK) introduced at BUILD 2016 for C# .NET and JavaScript NodeJs developers to build, connect, deploy, and manage intelligent bots to naturally interact with users on a website, app, Cortana, Microsoft Teams, Skype, Slack, Facebook Messenger, and more. 

Microsoft's <strong>Azure Bot services</strong>

This is an enhanced version of instructions <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/?view=azure-bot-service-3.0">here</a>

1. Log into your Azure portal
2. Search for a Bot Service.
3. New to see a choice of an Azure Bot Service Bot:

   * Web App Bot is deployed to an Azure App Service Web App
   * Bot Channel Registration to host wherever you want
   * Functions Bot are deployed to an Azure Functions App.

4. Selec Web App Bot.
5. Click Create
6. Bot name needs to unique among all (not just to you).
7. <a target="_blank" href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/bot-service/">
   The princing page</a> says you get 10,000 messages per month free on Premium channels.
8. <a target="_blank" href="https://dev.botframework.com/bots/provision?createFirstBot=true
 Azure Bot Service</a>

    Alternately, use the <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-service-debug-emulator?view=azure-bot-service-3.0">Bot Framework Emulator</a>

The Bot Framework supports RIA (Rich Attachments)

Microsoft's Connector service translates Channel JSON to Bot activities.

C# apps are created using Visual Studio 2015 on, with Visual Studio Extentions updated.

Templates are from https://aka.ms/bf-bc-vstemplate

https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/microsoft-bot-framework-getting-started/table-of-contents
Getting Started with Building Bots with Microsoft's Bot Framework
17 Jan 2017
by Matthew Kruczek


<hr />
<a name="AmazonLex"></a>

## Amazon Lex


## More technical details

Chatbots usie an encoder and a decoder.

A neural conversational model - speaker embeddings.

cosine similarity function of

triplet loss


## Videos

* <a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PXJtFc8DjsE">
   Siraj on chatbots</a>


## More

This is one of a series on AI, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Robotics, and Analytics:

{% include ai_links.html %}
